We will review the correct answers
of the Lean Startup test.
Lean Startup is created by Eric Rice.
Let us take an example, a fictional case.
We will create a software that allows
us to make attractive presentations.
The idea is that we believe, it
is the hypothesis, that there are
millions of people in the
world who are currently using Power
Point, but one could offer a service
by leveraging us in the new
technologies a different service.
But that's the problem, that the
use of Power Point is not optimal.
And then the solution is
to use an online tool
with drag and drop,
image banking, etc.
And we believe that the customer
segment is mainly people in
the workplace, because clearly
in the end they have to pay
for software as a service
format, and only people who
are in the workplace, who can
be either freelance professionals
or small, will pay.
So what is the first thing
we need to do?
What should we do?
Preparing a business plan with a
for example three-year projection,
identifying the business model
hypotheses, we have seen some
by the way, or looking for suppliers.
Most people do what they do,
usually the first thing they
do is the A and the C.
They start to develop technology
and also prepare a business
plan, when what you need to do
is the B, is to identify the
business model hypotheses
and then validate them.
What is the first of the
possibilities we need to identify?
Well, the first is always to identify
and validate that there is a problem
and that the problem also
has a sufficient number
of people in the world.
If there is no problem, it will
be very difficult to build a
business model from it.
As we said before, we think there
are a lot of people in the world
who would be happy to stop using
PowerPoint and use our software.
How do you think we can validate it?
We can make a landing page and
do certain experiments to measure
what interest is.
We can also make a landing
page and interview us with 50
people for example and see how
they respond.
Or we could also do campaigns on Facebook,
explaining a little about our
solution and measuring the
result, interest.
All of these are correct
and I recommend that
you use these tests.
We have already validated that there is,
we have validated the problem, we have done
these experiments and it turns out that
there is some interest.
What would be the next step?
What do we do?
We create a mockup of the software,
what we do is instead of creating
the entire software we use some
tool to create a mockup that
is like a model that can
be used.
We either start building the
software or we seek funding.
Well, I would first do as soon as
possible would create a mockup
that allows us to interact in the
most real way possible but as soon
as possible and with the least
possible investment with customers
to see what type of
functionality they like, which do
not like, etc.
And once you have gotten
conclusions from the mockup, it'
s when you have to start building
the software.
When do you think we should
build a first version of the software?
This requires more investment.
When did we validate problem solution
fit?
In other words, when we have done
the previous paragraphs we have
had some success.
When we have obtained enough direct
feedback from potential customers
that allows us to know what
is what we have to build.
When we have validated as much
as possible that interest
is large enough to pay for
it.
Whenever you can, try to validate
that people will pay for it.
Give them the most real situation possible.
When we are sure that there
is a large enough market because
we have validated it on a small
scale.
All of them are very reasonable.
At that point, if you have done your
duties well, it is when you have to
start spending money and creating
the product.
What happens when you don't take care of
the inner startup?
That you are very likely to end
up building software that no
one wants.
That we will be without resources
before reaching product market
fit because you probably spend
them on a product that no
one wants.
When you realize that you no longer
have enough resources.
Or that we build software
from ideas in our head
but not from real
evidence with customers.
All the previous ones.
I think all the above are consequences
that will happen to you if you
have not understood the inner
startup well and apply it rigorously.
Well, we have already validated
that we have a product that has
interest, we have acquired a
sufficient number of customers,
we have controlled something,
we have validated some customer
acquisition cost and also do
not give off.
At what point are we?
I think we have reached
product market
fit.
It is at that moment that you
validate that this has some
meaning that adds value.
I want to reinforce this Sonelis's
reflection.
Sonelis what comes to us is that
really the companies that grow most
are those whose engine is based
on a very potent product market fit.
That is, the most important thing
is not how they use the capture
channels, etc., but that you
really be able to create a product
that loves people, that the market
is waiting for it and sure that
from that product market fit everything
goes very well.
Which of the following metrics
can lead us to error?
Conversion rates, sales volume,
chance rate, the ratio of customers
that is agreed upon
in promoters.
Well, it is the volume of sales
that can lead you to error, because
it is not really representative
of the value you are bringing
the volume of sales.
You have to remember that you
can do it in some way.
If you're investing a lot
in marketing, you may have
high sales, but you may be
losing customers, for example.
When do you think we
should start obsessively
worrying about increasing
sales and total customer
volume?
Well, really once we have reached
product market fit, we have
clear that we have a product
that brings value and that people
like and we have also validated
and sought the optimization
of the capture channels.
At that point, we need to start
investing heavily and worry
about the absolute volume
of customers.
Until then, absolute data
is not so important, it is
more relative, it is more
representative metrics of
what customers like, what
customers repeat, etc.
Lidl Startup has transformed the
strategic approach with which
we have to deal with any innovative
project.
Why is it?
Basically because what it tells us
is that until we have validated
all the major hypotheses, what
we have to have is a look-
for-look approach, not a run-for-look.
What is the MVP on Dropbox?
and a video.
What are the challenges in the
growth engine phase?
Search for the capture channels
with the lowest CPA.
Yes, find channels that allow
us to very large volumes,
effectively, and to be clear
about what will be the fate of
the growing investments, since
all the previous ones.
The very low chan rate and a very
high promoter ratio are very
representative metrics of what?
We have a product
market feed.
The chan rate under what it implies
is that there are very few customers
who give us a drop and if the ratio of
the recommendation is also very high,
it is representative of that.
Why does the total volume of
sales and the total number
of customers sometimes give
us a wrong outlook?
We have explained it before, because
it can end-up, that is, if you invest
a lot, you can have many customers,
but it doesn't mean, it'
s really not directly representative
of value, because you can be
capturing many customers,
generating a lot of sales,
but that many are giving down
and the soil rate is high,
and because sometimes sales
are not a direct reflection of
having reached Product Market
Feed.
I think all three
are good ideas.
Which of the following decisions
can lead you to escalate prematurely?
Investing heavily in marketing
from the start or over-monitoring
the chan rate and NPS?
Clearly it is this.
Until you validate the Product
Market Feed, the growth channels,
really the investment
in marketing does not have
to go targeted to growth,
it has to go aimed at getting
enough customers to be able
to go learning.
What is the main cause of a
startup's death?
Create a product that no one
wants to buy.
When do you think it is
appropriate to make a business plan?
From the beginning, to be able
to plan the entire development of the
business model, or when you have
managed to validate the business
model hypotheses, then we already
know what will happen, or we already
have more guarantees of
what will happen, and at that time
it is when we project it
into the future.
Who is Lean Startup for?
Lean Startup is a methodology
that everyone needs to know
and that must be used in
managing all organizations
regardless of whether they
are large or small.